To access information and to
communicate with others online,
you first need to connect to the
Internet.
This is also known as getting
online.
To do this, you need an Internet
capable device to connect to a
network.
These devices include desktop
and laptop computers, mobile
phones, and tablets.
Nearly all modern devices in
these categories have the
ability to connect to networks
to get online.
Essentially, the Internet is
made U of a set of networks that
are connected to each other all
across the world and you get
online an on the Internet by
connecting to one of these
networks.
Often times you'll be connecting
to a network that's been set U
in your home Oregon place of
work deending on the device
you're using.
You can connect to networks in
different ways.
For example, if you're using a
desktop computer, you may have a
wired connection to your network
for Internet access.
Many laptop comuters also have
Orts to support a wired
connection as well.
For a wired connection, you'll
use a cable called an Ethernet
cable to connect your computer
to your network device, often
called a router.
Most laptop computers also have
the ability to connect to Wi-Fi
networks, which is a wireless
form of connection, so you can
choose between a wired and
wireless connection for most
laptops.
When using ortable devices like
mobile phones and tablets,
you'll also typically connect to
your network via Wi-Fi.
If your mobile phone or tablet
has a data plan through your
mobile rovider, you can also
connect to the Internet
wirelessly over cellular
signals.
When Wi-Fi isn't available, this
is referred to as mobile
broadband.
When you're on the go, though,
connecting to Wi-Fi networks is
generally the best option as
many mobile roviders limit the
amount of data you can transfer
over mobile broadband and may
charge extra fees for going over
your limit.
Ublicly available Wi-Fi networks
are also available in places
like airports, hotels, shopping
centers, and restaurants.
Oftentimes, ublic Wi-Fi networks
are password protected, which is
a method for securing the
network from being accessed by
just anyone.
For example, a coffee shop may
decide to only share the
password to their Wi-Fi network
with customers.
Imilarly.
The Wi-Fi network you may have
set U in your home should also
be password protected to prevent
people from outside your
household from connecting to it.
Home networks are usually set U
by your Internet service
provider or I your I sets you U
with a modem for creating the
connection from your home to the
Internet.
And often the service includes a
router which allows multiple
computers and devices to connect
to the Internet at the same
time, either wired or
wirelessly.
For the most part, getting
online is quick and easy as long
as you have an available network
to connect to.